HUNTER: All of life
is a coming home.
Salesmen, secretaries,
coal miners, beekeepers,
sword swallowers,
all of us.
All the restless
hearts of the world,
all trying to find a way home.
It's hard to describe
what I felt like then.
Picture yourself walking
for days in a driving snow.
You don't even know
you're walking in circles,
the heaviness of your
legs in the drifts,
your shouts disappearing
into the wind.
How small you can feel.
How far away home can be.
Home.
The dictionary defines it
as both "a place of origin"
and "a goal or destination."
And the storm?
The storm was all in my mind.
Or as the poet Dante put it,
"In the middle of the journey
of my life I found myself
in a dark wood,
"for I had lost
the right path."
Eventually I would
find the right path,
but in the most
unlikely place.
How many fingers do you see?
You crazy... Stop sneaking
up on me like that.
How many?
Four?
Four.
(LAUGHS)
Another idiot.
You gonna love it here.
Got a new one, Jane.
Hunter Adams.
Self-committed. Suicidal.
Slate him with Dr. Prack.
JANE: All right.
Hey, Rudy. What's the word,
my man?
He ain't left that bed
in three weeks. He won't
give you any trouble.
He needs another bedpan.
They're in the closet.
Wake-up is 7:00 a.m.
Excuse me. Is there any way
I could have my own room?
Oh, absolutely.
Just call the concierge
and ask for a suite
overlooking the fountain.
No, I prefer the cabana room.
Get some sleep.
(LAUGHING)
(SIGHS)
Hi.
You're...
You're a lot fuzzier
than my last roommate.
Oh. Yeah. Keeps me warm.
(CHUCKLES)
(SCREAMING)
What's wrong?
Get 'em away!
Get what away?
Get 'em. Get 'em away!
Okay, I'm gonna have to...
You traitor!
You brought 'em with you
when you opened the door!
Who?
(WHIMPERING)
(SCREAMING)
We need help in here!
Somebody!
All right.
No! No! No!
They'll get me! Don't take me
down! They'll get me! No!
Don't let the squirrels
get me! Please!
Don't let the
squirrels get me!
(RUDY SOBBING)
RUDY: That was
a squirrel bite!
(WHISPERING) Squirrels.
HUNTER: My father died
when I was nine.
He was in the army.
He wasn't home very much.
Two weeks before he died,
he told me that
in the Korean War,
it felt like he'd
lost his soul.
All this time
I thought it was me.
I moved seven times
in the last year.
(SIGHS)
I've had several jobs.
Nothing seemed to fit.
I don't seem to fit.
And when your father died,
how did that make you feel?
I don't know. I was nine.
It was like there was
this distinction, suddenly,
between you
and the rest of the world.
I looked around me.
Life went on just
like it did before.
But it wasn't like
it was before.
My uncle helped.
He would visit.
He at least listened.
And I thought
if I could light my own farts
I could fly to the moon,
or at least Uranus.
But if I couldn't do that
at least I could use my
penis as a pogo stick,
and that might be
a way of getting around.
I'm sorry?
Mmm-hmm.
Yes, that's good.
Well, I think you're making
fine progress, Hunter.
We'll talk later in group.
Thank you.
(EXCLAIMS)
Four. Four? Four!
(LAUGHING)
Four! Oh!
You are all insane!
Insane! Four!
EMMET: Arthur Mendelson.
The Arthur Mendelson?
Brand Beaton Industries.
Guy was one of the most
innovative minds of our time.
Look at him now. He can't
even count the windows.
God. What happened to him?
Why is he here?
Self-committed. Genius
syndrome. Howard Hughes-type
shit.
Constantly digging into
the creative potential
of the human mind.
(ARTHUR MUTTERING)
I guess he dug too deep.
This is real wood.
(GRUNTS)
Why are we meeting in here?
It's cramped.
Well, Everton, we're meeting
in here so that Rudy can
participate.
It's cramped.
DR. PRACK: Does anyone else
have a thought on that?
Cramped!
I think he has a question.
(ALL GIGGLING)
Do you find that funny,
Hunter, making fun of
a man's infirmity?
Maybe he does have a question.
He's alive.
He's catatonic.
Well, he still has a brain.
Maybe he wants to participate,
too.
RUDY: Yeah.
Maybe he has a question.
Yeah, maybe.
Maybe he knows
why we're cramped.
(ALL SNIGGERING)
Maybe Beany knows a lot more
than we give him credit for.
Excuse me. Beany?
Which way is heaven?
(ALL LAUGHING)
That's correct!
That'll be enough, Hunter.
Beany, how much taller
is Wilt Chamberlain than you?
Right.
Hey, Beany! Beany!
Where's the ceiling?
(ALL LAUGHING)
That's enough. Stop it.
Where do the birds fly, Beany?
How do you
say hello to Hitler?
Beany, how does
Hitler say hello?
HUNTER: How do you check
an elephant for a hernia?
(ALL LAUGHING)
Who would win
a staring contest? Beany!
Who farted?
Beany!
Who likes to masturbate?
ALL: Yeah!
NEIL: I do! I do!
Hey, Beany, how does
a one-armed referee
say "field goal"?
Ciao, Beany!  Arigato, Beany!
RUDY: Hey, Beany!
RUDY: Bye, Beany.
It was a really good session,
I thought.
May I come in?
If you bend your medial
collateral ligaments,
and place one talus in front
of another, I don't see where
you'd have a problem.
Of course, if there were
a news story covering
this event,
the headline might read,
"Small Brain Enters Room."
The fingers.
What's the answer?
Oh, you're another one
of those bright young fellows
who always know the right
answer, is that it?
Welcome to real life.
How many do you see?
There are four fingers,
Arthur.
No, no, no. Look at me.
What?
You're focusing
on the problem.
If you focus on the problem,
you can't see the solution.
Never focus on the problem.
Look at me.
How many do you see?
No, look beyond the fingers.
Eight.
Eight. Eight. Yes! Yes!
Eight's a good answer. Yes.
See what no one else sees.
See what everyone else
chooses not to see
out of fear and conformity
and laziness.
See the whole world
anew each day.
Ah, the truth is,
you're well on the way.
If you didn't see something
here besides a crazy,
bitter old man,
you wouldn't have
come in the first place.
What do you see
when you look at me, Arthur?
You fixed my cup.
I'll see you around,
Patch.
(MATTRESS SPRINGS SQUEAKING)
Rudy, stop.
You're throwing
off my rhythm.
You'll go blind.
I have to go to the bathroom.
Please.
Then go. It's right
over there, 15 feet away.
I would, but...
But what? The squirrels?
How many?
There's only one just now.
You can't go to the bathroom
because of one squirrel?
If I get off the bed,
he'll get the others.
That's not the point.
They're squirrels.
Squirrels, Rudy.
They're one of the most
amiable creatures on the
planet.
Oh, no, they're not.
On the list of hostile
predators, they're right
above the bottom.
Just above baby
chicks and slugs.
What could they
possibly want? Your nuts?
Do you think?
Oh, Rudy.
Come on, I'll take you.
What?
Don't move.
Another one?
It's on the end of your bed,
on the rail.
Be careful. It's gonna jump.
(IMITATES GUN FIRING)
There's one,
at the end of the bed!
Bang!
There's one running
across the sprinkler!
Boom!
In back of the door!
Back of the door!
Coming out of the bathroom!
Bathroom! Bathroom!
Yeah!
Eat lead, fur bag! Bam!
You're cured...
You've got one
on your shoulder!
Get it off me!
(SHOUTING)
We need more cover!
They're coming from
the bathroom!
Get under cover, Rudy!
RUDY: Build a fort! Build
a fort! We can build a fort!
Down! Get down!
We need a fort!
They're gone.
I think it's safe to go to
the bathroom, Rudy. Come on.
No, it's too risky.
No.
Not when you have
this.
A bazooka.
Yeah.
Load.
(IMITATES AMMUNITION LOADING)
(IMITATES BAZOOKA BLAST)
Let's do it!
(BOTH SCREAMING)
(RUDY URINATING)
Mmm.
Yes.
I'd like to leave.
Hunter, we'll have to discuss
this at your scheduled time.
I'm leaving.
Have you thought
about what you'll do?
I want to help people.
Last night with Rudy,
I connected to another
human being.
I want more of that.
I want to learn about people,
help them with their troubles.
That's what I do.
But you suck at it.
You don't even look at people
when they're talking.
I want to listen, really
listen to people.
I can't allow you to leave.
I believe you still have some
issues to work out.
Ah. Well, I don't need your
permission because I admitted
myself.
Mmm-hmm?
Hunter.
I must warn you my report
will read "A.M.A.",
that you were signed out
of this hospital "against
medical advice."
And my report will read
"I.D.G.A.R.A."
"I don't give a rat's ass."
And my name is Patch.
¶ One morning
I woke up
¶ And I knew you
were really gone
¶ A new day
¶ A new way
¶ And new eyes would
see the dawn
¶ Go your way
¶ I'll go mine
¶ And carry on ¶
Hello. How you doing?
MAN: How do you do?
Hey, this is a nice room.
May I help you?
I could really use a foot
massage right now.
Rephrasing: What are you
doing here?
I'm your new roommate.
I'm moving in.
I don't mean to be rude,
but aren't you a little old to
be starting medical school?
You know, Babe Ruth was 39
when he joined the Yankees.
You're right.
No, he wasn't.
But I could really use an
example like that, and if you
ever find one, let me know.
Hi. Patch Adams.
Mitch Roman.
Georgetown University.
I was awarded the
William F. Thompson
Scientific Achievement Award.
Mmm. Emerson Elementary.
I once drew a picture
of a rabbit that got me
two gold stars.
I'm gonna go back over
there now.
(HUNTER WHISTLING)
WALCOTT: First do no harm.
What is implicit in this
simple precept of medicine?
An awesome power.
The power to do harm.
Who gives you this power?
The patient.
A patient will come to you
at his moment of greatest
dread,
hand you a knife and say,
"Doctor, cut me open."
Why?
Because he trusts you.
He trusts you the way
a child trusts.
He trusts you to do no harm.
The sad fact is,
human beings are not
worthy of trust.
It is human nature to lie,
take shortcuts,
to lose your nerve, get tired,
make mistakes.
No rational patient would put
his trust in a human being,
and we're not gonna let him!
It is our mission here
to rigorously and ruthlessly
train the humanity out of you
and make you into something
better.
We're gonna make doctors
out of you.
(BELL RINGING)
Two years of studying.
I thought we'd have more
contact with patients.
Didn't you?
Hi. I'm Patch.
You've just experienced
a North American greeting,
whereby one person offers
a verbal label to another
as an expression of welcome
and friendship.
Lesbian. Ball-buster. Airhead.
Leech.
Whichever one of these
disgusts you the most,
take your pick.
Please pass the word.
Well...
I am not here to date.
I am not here to flirt.
I'm here to study.
(LAUGHS)
Thank you.
I thought only I could repel
women with that kind
of raw efficiency.
Well, you just met your match.
Truman Schiff.
Patch Adams.
Nice to meet you, Truman.
Will you go out with me?
¶ You should see
What a lovely, lovely world
it should be ¶
HUNTER: May I ask you
one question?
Do you buy everything
the dean was saying today?
What do you mean?
I mean, that whole drill
sergeant thing.
"We're gonna make doctors
out of you medical scum.
"Now drop down
and give me 20."
That whole marine thing.
We're not even gonna see
a patient until
the third year.
Up until then,
it's just memorizing facts.
Hamburger?
Why don't they just shove
the book up...
Right here on the colon.
That's where it's going
anyway.
Thanks very much.
So, why do you wanna
be a doctor?
I want to help.
I want to connect with people.
A doctor interacts with people
at their most vulnerable.
He offers treatment, but he
also offers counsel and hope.
That's why I love the idea
of being a doctor.
I've always been fascinated
by the development
of the human mind.
Ah. Pumping neurons.
We start out so open
and spontaneous.
We're real individuals.
Then somewhere along the way
we're drawn to conform.
It's as if we're conditioned
by programmed responses.
Well, that's true.
But sometimes you can alter
the programmed response
just by changing some
of the conditions,
altering the parameters.
Let me show you.
We'll call it the
"hello" experiment.
The goal will be to break
through programmed response
by changing normal parameters
and getting a new emotional
response from the person.
Ready to enter data.
Hello.
Hi.
Wait. I don't get it.
"Hi" is a programmed response.
I reached her.
You scared her.
No. Wait. Wait for it.
(LAUGHS)
Oh, you're nuts.
A smile.
Ten seconds. Victory.
There's more.
Come, my friend.
Hi.
Howdy!
See? Response time
is diminishing.
Yesterday I made
12 random phone calls.
I talked to one man named Dale
for three hours. He told me
amazing things.
But what does this all prove,
other than you're out
of your mind?
What's the difference between
a doctor and a scientist?
And don't say salary.
People. We want to become
doctors because we want
to help people.
I want to be a pediatrician.
Okay, little people.
The point is, we have to
treat the patient as well
as the disease.
That's why we have to dive
into people, wade into the sea
of humanity, Truman.
Ballroom seven, right upstairs
on your left.
You guys with
the Meat Packers Convention?
Yes, sir!
Right up the stairs.
Ballroom seven.
You'll find out upstairs!
Hey! Does a chicken
have lips?
Like a bulldog on a pork chop!
(ALL CHATTERING)
You know, in New Zealand
they found a whole new use
for sheep.
Wool!
What's that?
You're funny! You kill me!
You kill me!
I love you!
Oh, daddy!
And you, I bet you've heard
that, too! Come here!
"Herd" it? That's a goat joke!
Thank you.
MAN: On your meat!
Get set! Go!
Yeah!
(ALL CHEERING)
I won!
Pork packers, rump wrappers,
bull shippers,
(ALL LAUGHING)
lend me your steers!
You know, we packers have
been taking a bad rap
for years.
ALL: Yeah!
Because we all want to be
the best damn packers
there are!
ALL: Yeah!
Yeah! I'm proud of my meat!
And I know you're proud of
your meat!
ALL: Yeah!
Whip it, zip it and send
it out!
ALL: Yeah!
You know, some people
say chicken.
ALL: No!
Some people say fish.
I say, now is the time
for cow!
(ALL CHEERING)
Eat cow! Eat cow! Eat cow!
Eat cow!
ALL: (CHANTING) Eat cow!
Eat cow! Eat cow! Eat cow!
Eat cow!
Eat cow! Eat cow!
Eat cow! Eat cow! Eat cow!
Hey, bud.
Hey! Oh!
Yes, thanks. Oh, yeah.
Hey, whoa!
What is it?
What's the difference between
a first-year and a
third-year medical student?
WOMAN ON PA: Doctor Vukov,
please dial line 1242.
Dr. Vukov, please dial line
1242.
Here we have a juvenile
onset diabetic
with poor circulation
and diabetic neuropathy.
As you can see,
these are diabetic ulcers
with lymphedema
and evidence of gangrene.
Questions?
Any osteomyelitis?
None apparent.
Although not definitive.
To stabilize the blood sugar.
Treatment?
Consider antibiotics,
possibly amputation.
HUNTER: What's her name?
I was just wondering the
patient's name.
Marjorie.
Hi, Marjorie.
Hi.
Yes, thank you.
Let's move on.
Continuing the experiment.
Come on.
What are you doing?
We can start a lemonade
stand together after we get
kicked out of medical school.
Bye, Marjorie.
(CLATTERING)
I cannot stand it in there,
Joletta. He doesn't have to
talk to me like that.
I know, hon, but really, how
good a mood would you be in?
May I help you?
Oh...
So I'll meet you at the club.
Oh, great. Maybe we'll play
the back nine, hmm?
Hello. I'm Patch.
I'm studying medicine here.
Well, not here, but...
You know.
Look it here, Judy.
Another future boss.
Oh, I wouldn't look at it
like that.
You may think
I'm exaggerating,
but in another five years
you'll be so full of yourself
you'll have to hang a cup
out your ass just to catch
the excess.
Ouch.
JUDY: Joletta!
Well, hell, why not?
It's the only time in my life
I'm gonna outrank him.
Might as well enjoy it.
HUNTER: Who's in that room?
Don't even think about it.
He'll bite your head off.
Mr. Davis. Pancreatic cancer.
How long does he have?
Longer than you, if you go
in that room.
So be sure you steer clear.
Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
Hey! What year are you?
Hey.
Hi.
WOMAN ON PA: Dr. Landaker
to Administration.
Dr. Landaker
to Administration, please.
Hi.
What's your name?
Cameron.
Hi, Cameron. I'm Patch.
(SNIFFLING) I have a cold.
Just a bit of a cold.
Is my nose red? Oh, it is.
It's red.
(EXCLAIMING)
What's that? You don't know?
I don't either.
Let's find out.
Taxi!
Try on you. Give it a try.
(IMITATES WHOOSHING)
It's working very well.
Let's see what else we have.
(GASPS) Look at some
of this stuff.
(IMITATING BUZZING)
Bee kisses.
(BUZZING)
Hi.
You mind if I sit down?
(ALL LAUGHING)
(IMITATING HEN CLUCKING)
(CLUCKING)
Well, then, hello, hello.
Oh, look at...
(WHOOPING)
Come on, buddy!
What is going on here?
(ALL LAUGHING)
Sit down.
Get in your beds right now.
(CHILDREN LAUGHING)
Sit down! Sit down!
Lie down in your beds
right now!
I've checked up on you,
Hunter.
Patch.
Hunter, Dr. Prack was
a colleague of
mine at Bringham.
He tells me you have
a brilliant mind, and like
many brilliant people,
you don't necessarily think
the rules apply to you.
Not all the rules,
sir, but the Golden Rule,
I think that
applies to everyone.
Don't you, sir?
I've also heard you
have a real passion
to be a doctor, Hunter.
Patch.
Truth of it is, Hunter,
passion doesn't make doctors.
I make doctors.
Understood?
Good.
Understood.
Medical students,
as a rule, have no contact
with patients
until the third year.
It is,
sir, but don't you think...
Is that clear?
Our way of doing things
is a product of
centuries of experience.
It's all there for a reason.
It's my hospital.
I know everything that
goes on inside of it.
Everything.
TRUMAN:
Deviation of the tongue.
ADELANE: A problem
with the cranial nerve.
TRUMAN: Which side?
Twelfth nerve.
Right side, tenth nerve.
Do you know how many
billions of dollars
are wasted on
malpractice insurance?
That's money
that goes to lawyers
that could go to patients.
Hi, guys. Sorry I'm late.
Does everybody
know Carin Fisher,
Adelane's roommate?
I invited her to
join our study group.
So, Carin, why do you
want to be a doctor?
Is it just me,
or do we have a lot
of work to do?
It's just a question.
I think it's the question.
Actually,
I don't find the question
here in the outline.
What page are you on?
1432. Deviation of a tongue.
We'd learn more
if we were working
closely with patients.
That's why we're studying,
to learn enough to
help the patients.
Adelane,
don't waste your breath.
Don't you...
Don't you think I
see through you?
You act like
you're above the system
when you're really
just a nonconformist.
You have to get
under the fingernails
of any authority figure
that crosses your path
as a way of dealing
with some insecurity.
Antisocial personality,
I believe.
Intriguing diagnosis.
Truman, this isn't funny.
Smart people flunk out
of here all the time.
Yeah, odds are one
of the five of us
sitting here, actually.
I have another question.
In a perfect system,
why are patients
referred to by their disease,
as in "that
interesting cancer patient,"
and not by their name?
It certainly isn't to be mean.
It's to prevent transference.
And why is that bad?
And the one flunking out is?
Can we get back to the tongue?
What if a doctor
becomes emotionally
involved with a patient?
Does a doctor explode? No.
Who came up with these rules?
It's against
the Hippocratic oath, I think.
I don't really have
time for this. Sorry.
Bye.
Bye. Sorry.
Charming.
Yeah.
Truman?
I'm sorry.
I didn't mean to stop you
from studying.
Go away!
I believe there's more
to being a doctor than
memorizing facts about
the ventricular artery.
I don't care what you think.
I care about my biology test.
Maybe I could help you.
I read the bio book.
The whole book?
Oh, yeah.
Now I'm on to Whitman.
You can get  Leaves of
Grass at the bookstore
if you have a 20% student I.D.
card.
He wouldn't want you either.
I don't want Walt Whitman.
He was a homosexual.
But that's not relevant.
What's relevant
is that he was a medical man.
He was a nurse
in the Civil War
and wrote great poetry.
"Afoot and lighthearted,
I take to the open road..."
Look, I'm not sure if
you've noticed this,
but in a class of 163 students
there are eight women. Eight.
I've had to work
really hard to get here, and
I'm gonna have to
work even harder to stay,
and I'm not about to blow it
by wasting my time on
your flighty theories
of goodness.
I'm here to learn
about medicine. Period.
Excuse me.
I think somebody
is running away
from something.
Why can't it just be that
I'm running away from you?
(IMITATING CAT YOWLING)
(HISSING)
¶ One, two, three
¶ Good lovin'
¶ I was feelin' so bad ¶
Hi.
¶ I asked my family
doctor just what I had ¶
Very nice. Very nice.
¶ I said, Doctor
¶ Doctor Mr. M.D.
¶ Doctor
Now can you tell me ¶
HUNTER: Do I look thin to you?
¶ What's ailin' me ¶
'Cause I'm tryin' to
lose a little weight.
Is this too much?
Have I gone too far?
I got a boner.
I am a boner.
(LAUGHING)
¶ Is good lovin'
¶ Now give me
that good, good lovin'
¶ Good lovin'
¶ All I need is, babe
¶ Good lovin' ¶
Donner, party of 50!
Donner!
Donner party! Over here!
I don't know
what's wrong here.
I'm trying to light
the dials here, but, uh,
bottom line is,
your TV's broken here.
(ALL LAUGHING)
My name is Officer
Patty O'Furniture.
I'm here today to
talk to you briefly
about narcolepsy.
Narcolepsy...
(SNORING)
Clown salute!
(ALL SQUEAKING)
Very good! Wide face!
¶ Good lovin' ¶
Fart face!
(ALL IMITATING FARTING)
The hospital will
cover all of your bills.
Any other questions?
My name is Doctor Phil.
I'll be your surgeon.
Oh, there you are.
Hey! Let's get ready to party!
(ALL LAUGHING)
Grazie! Hey!  Grazie!
Grazie! Now take a bow!
¶ Good lovin'
¶ I need good lovin'
Good lovin'
¶ What I want is lovin'
Good lovin' ¶
Don't believe
everything you read.
Looks like you didn't need
that study group after all.
Well, it's no 98,
but I'm still here.
Yeah.
Excuse me.
Oh, excuse me. Excuse me.
Mmm-hmm.
You know, this completely
disrupts my point of view.
It was so much more convenient
thinking of you as an idiot.
Don't count me out yet.
It's frustrating.
I study all night,
and I'm barely hanging on
by my fingernails.
Oh, forget about that.
I want to show you
something
that's extraordinary.
An enema bulb?
It used to be.
This amazing piece of rubber
when applied to your face
can brighten
another person's day.
Even a suffering patient.
I'm sure it's really
great for kids, but...
No, not just kids. Anybody.
Patients are
opening up to me, Carin.
They're sharing their dreams,
their fantasies,
and if you hit on
the right topic,
they brighten up
for one brief moment.
They don't
concentrate on the pain.
They don't even feel the pain.
No, thank you.
Try it on.
I want you to try
it on and help me.
Just try it on.
If you don't laugh,
you'll never see it again.
But if you do,
you have to help me.
Just try it on.
Hmm.
Ta-da.
(CHUCKLING)
You didn't say
anything about a mirror.
Who do you
think you look like?
Karl Malden?
You cheated.
You can take the nose off now.
So, what's the favor?
(MAN GASPING)
(GASPING)
Psst.
(CLICKING TONGUE)
HUNTER: Ready?
(IMITATING
ELEPHANT TRUMPETING)
HUNTER: Dumbo incoming!
Bag 'im,  bwana!
Killer poodle! You got lucky!
Piranha fish! Yeah! Very good!
Man down!
(SHOUTING)
What was that?
It's nothing.
Should I go check?
I said, it's nothing.
(SHOUTING CONTINUES)
HUNTER: One last one!
(IN BRITISH ACCENT)
Well, congratulations, Jackie.
You've done it all.
You've nailed
every balloon from
here to Timbuktu.
That was incredible, Patch.
(GASPING)
Almost as good
as the real thing.
One last safari.
That's all I wanted.
Thank you, Truman.
Both of you.
That was wonderful.
Yes,
it's been a long time for me.
What about you, dear?
What's your fantasy?
Oh.
When I was a little girl,
whenever my mother
would cook spaghetti,
she would let me
reach into the pot
and squeeze the noodles.
Oh!
I've always wanted to
be in a swimming pool
full of noodles,
wall-to-wall
and top-to-bottom.
An entire pool
full of noodles.
Oh.
How about a poodle?
And the award for valor goes
to Truman Schiff
and his red welt.
Thank you, Truman.
Located just
above my nasal bone,
adjacent to my...
Glabella!
(SIGHS)
Good night, Truman.
Right.
Fun's fun, kids, but my welt
and I have a study date
with the autonomic
nerves of the thorax.
Good luck. Watch out
for the circle of Willis.
Good luck to you.
And our next award,
in the tradition of
the great poodle handlers,
where no actual
transference took place...
All right.
What you did in there,
it was very nice, I admit.
Whoa. Is that a little
ice that just chipped off?
You're never serious, are you?
No. I tried that for years.
Never really worked for me.
Yeah.
Oh.
Well, I'd better go hit
the thorax as well, so...
I have a crush on you.
I can't believe I
just blurted that out.
(SIGHS)
Look, thank you for
taking me along tonight.
I actually had fun.
Good night.
Wait a minute.
When I said I
had a crush on you,
you didn't say,
"No way, loser.
I'd rather have
a lobotomy by a leper."
That means something.
Maybe I was just being polite
and I didn't want to
hurt your feelings.
But you're not polite.
You're rude.
Sometimes you're
downright bitchy.
Good night.
WOMAN ON PA: Dr. Hyer,
please dial the pharmacy.
(MONITORS BEEPING)
¶ Blue skies
¶ Shining on me
¶ Nothin' but blue skies
¶ Do I see
¶ Bluebirds
¶ Singin' a song ¶
Are you a doctor?
No. I'm a medical student.
But if there's anything
I can do to help you...
You wanna help me?
Oh, yeah. What can I do?
Listen,
you little do-gooder prick.
If you wanna make
yourself feel good,
don't make me pay for it.
Now get out of here,
'cause you don't help shit!
(LOUD CRASHING)
(PANTING)
(LAUGHING CONTINUES)
WOMAN ON PA: Dr.
Maslow, line 242, please.
Dr. Maslow, line 242.
Ride 'em, cowboy!
(WHOOPING)
Yeah!
(HUNTER LAUGHING)
Oh! Oh! I surrender!
I'll tell you what
you want to know!
Do you wanna
tell me what it is
you think you're doing?
Oh.
(CLEARS THROAT)
Just getting
a few laughs, sir.
The American
Journal of Medicine
has found that laughter
increases secretion
of
catecholamines and endorphins,
which in turn
increases oxygenation
of the blood,
relaxes the arteries,
speeds up the heart,
decreases blood pressure,
which has
a positive effect on all
cardiovascular and
respiratory ailments
as well as overall increasing
the immune system response.
(CLOWN SHOES SQUEAKING)
Smart clown, eh?
Mr. Adams.
When I told you I knew Dr.
Prack,
did I mislead you in some way
to think I'm a pushover,
like he is?
Kindly remove that coat.
I told you, you are
not to see the patients
till the third year.
I'm just
visiting friends, sir.
Why are you here?
If you want to be a clown,
go join the circus.
Patients don't need
to be entertained.
They don't need a friend.
They need a doctor.
I don't want to see you
in this hospital again.
What if I visit
the patients on my own time?
Yes, about your own time.
It's been brought
to our attention
that perhaps we
should be suspicious
of the level of your grades.
What are you saying?
I'm cheating?
Your scores are among the top
in your class,
yet you never seem to study.
That's ridiculous.
Your classmates
don't seem to think so.
Really. Who?
I'm warning you.
Stay out of this hospital.
You told Walcott I cheated.
I know you did it.
Just tell me why.
Look, cut the crap, Hunter.
I live with you.
I know how much you study,
or don't study.
And you do better than me?
Give me a break.
You arrogant, pompous prick!
Who appointed you custodian
of the medical profession?
Is it because your
father and his father
was a doctor,
some sort of genetic thing?
Really?
You're damn right.
I grew up with it.
I know what it takes
to look in the eyes
of dying people day after day
and come home for
dinner at night.
I know what it takes.
You don't have it.
Oh, really. And you do?
If you don't like me,
just say it.
I don't like you!
Why don't you like me?
You're a prick,
and I like you.
Because you make
my effort a joke!
I want to be a doctor!
This isn't a game to me!
This isn't playtime!
This is serious business!
I have it in me to
be a great doctor,
but in order to do
that I have to sacrifice
if I want to be better.
"Better." Better than me, hmm?
(SIGHS)
I will save lives
that could have otherwise
not been saved.
Now, I could be
like you and go around
laughing and have a good time,
but I prefer to learn,
because the more I learn,
the more likely I will
have the right answer
at the crucial
moment and save a life.
And you say I'm a prick?
You say I'm a prick?
You know, maybe I am,
but you ask
the average person,
when death comes
knocking at their door,
whether they want
a prick on their side
or some kindergarten teacher
who's gonna kiss their ass!
Because when that day comes
I want the prick,
and so will you.
You know, I forget
how young you are, Mitch,
that you think you
have to be a prick
to get things done
and that you actually think
that that's a new idea.
(SIGHS)
You know what I oughta do?
Take it to
the state medical board.
There's gotta be some
constitutional right
for visiting the sick.
Why don't you say anything?
Sorry, Patch.
I think Walcott has a point.
It's a hospital.
People are
suffering and dying.
We're all dying, Truman.
Our job is to increase health.
You know what that means?
That means improving
the quality of life,
not just delaying death.
Either way, I...
For your own sake, I think
you should just
lay low for a while.
Maybe you're right.
Preview of coming attractions.
Nurse.
"Death. To die. To expire.
To pass on. To perish.
"To peg out.
To push up daisies.
To push up posies.
"To become extinct.
"Curtains, deceased,
demised, departed and defunct.
"Dead as a doornail.
Dead as a herring.
"Dead as a mutton.
Dead as nits.
"The last breath.
Paying a debt to nature.
The big sleep."
God's way of saying,
"Slow down."
To check out.
To shuffle off
this mortal coil.
To head for
the happy hunting ground.
To blink for
an exceptionally long
period of time.
To find oneself
without breath.
To be
the incredible decaying man.
Worm buffet.
Buy the farm.
Kick the bucket.
Take the cab.
Cash in your chips.
And if we bury you ass up,
we have a place
to park my bike.
(HUNTER WHOOPING)
Coming out of
chute number nine,
riding that morphine pony!
Come on now.
¶ Hey, yeah ¶
Let's check out
the maternity ward.
You know those chicks put out.
Here we see that
the vitreous body
is composed of
a transparent jelly
with a mesh of
collagen fibers.
Lights, please.
Before we adjourn Dean Walcott
has a brief announcement.
(WHISPERING) He's gonna have
the sex change!
Next Monday
the hospital is hosting
a medical
seminar-slash-retreat
for the Fellowship of
the American College
of Gynecologists.
I'll get the strippers.
It is important that
they be received in a
manner suitable to
their status and position.
I have traditionally selected
an outstanding student
to head
the welcoming committee.
The time demands are great,
and I wouldn't
want to jeopardize
the academic performance
of a weaker student.
This year I have chosen
Hunter Adams.
Oh. Well, thank you.
Hunter,
there's a detailed list
of instructions in my office.
Oh, and the auditorium
could use a good cleaning.
(ALL LAUGHING)
(BELL RINGING)
Did you hear him?
"In a style according
to their
stature and position."
"I am a great doctor!
Worship me!
Spread before me!
"Who dares stand?"
You know what I'm thinking?
Maybe
we should decorate
with a western motif.
How about that? Ah.
Something with stirrups
and a big banner that says,
"Howdy, gyneroos!
Dilated to meet ya!"
How about
just doing it straight?
How about that?
As in, straight to graduation.
What do you mean?
Oh. If anybody has
a problem with this,
please just walk
away right now.
Oh. All right.
Wow! Yes!
(CHUCKLING) Okay.
They're right on time.
Good morning, Doctor.
Welcome to campus.
Good to see you.
How you doing, Doctor?
Gentlemen, I believe
that you'll find
the facilities here
are just perfect for
your purposes today.
We have everything set
up in the auditorium.
If you'd just follow me...
(PEOPLE LAUGHING)
Welcome, cold-handed ones.
It's an honor to
greet-slash-welcome
so many who have
touched so many women
in such a powerful way.
Come on in.
Watch out.
It's a little slippery.
And if you think it's
hot out there, whoa!
(IMITATING ECHO) Come on!
Get him in my office now.
All right, gentlemen, if...
If you'd just follow me.
You wanted to see me, sir?
You are dismissed.
Sir.
From this school.
Kindly remove your things
and vacate the school premises
as soon as possible.
What for?
For asking a group of doctors
to have a sense of
humor about themselves?
Oh, I have a sense
of humor, Hunter.
I find it hilarious that,
as smart as you are,
you could give me
an airtight reason
to throw you
the hell out of here!
Why am I such
a threat to you, sir?
Because what you want
is for us to get down there
on the same level
as our patients,
to destroy objectivity,
all to uphold some
idealistic buddy system
that will allow
you to work through
your own
feelings of inadequacy.
What you have done here today
is inexcusable.
You have made
a complete mockery
out of our
distinguished guests.
If you think that I
will further tolerate your
blatant disregard of
the bylaws of this...
What are you smiling at?
Is this all a big joke to you?
Get out of here!
ANDERSON:
Blatant disregard for school
code and procedure.
Defying direct
orders from a dean.
And I am aware of
your creative efforts
to make sure our
visiting gynecologists
feel right at home.
Now, what is it you'd
like me to do for you?
I want to graduate, sir.
Dean Walcott thinks otherwise,
but my grades
are way above par.
I want to finish school
so I can become a doctor.
Well, I'm gonna give this
to you real straight.
I have a hospital
and a medical school
to run here.
I have to trust
the people in my employ,
otherwise their quality
of life will turn to shit.
Their life turns to shit,
my life turns to shit.
Do you follow?
Good.
Yes.
Now, Dean Walcott
is a pain in the ass,
but I depend on him
to keep me up to speed
on what's going
on around here,
and I would
never take the word
of any student over his.
However,
I also have
a source that informs me
that your antics
have improved
the quality of life
for the patients.
They don't complain as much,
they take less medication,
and
what's-his-name over in 305
has not thrown his
bedpan at a nurse
in over a week.
Yeah, whatever.
It's Bill.
So, from now on
you will not enter
that hospital
unless under the supervision
of the attendant,
as part of the curriculum,
and you will steer
clear of Dean Walcott.
Yes, sir.
So I'm still in school?
I wouldn't send
my laundry out,
but you just
don't screw up, huh?
(ROCK MUSIC PLAYING ON RADIO)
HUNTER: Come in.
Please come in.
¶ The rain is falling ¶
Hello?
¶ Through the mist of sorrow ¶
Welcome.
Hello. Patch?
What are you doing?
I thought we were studying.
We're studying
cellular biology.
Where are you?
Somewhere.
¶ Let it rain ¶
ALL: Surprise!
Happy birthday!
ADELANE: Happy birthday!
I don't believe this.
Where is he?
Where is he, Truman?
I just saw him
around here somewhere.
ADELANE: You gotta find him.
¶ Let it rain, rain, rain ¶
Patch?
(SCREAMS)
"I do not love you as if you
were a salt rose or topaz
"or the air o'er carnations
that fire shoots off.
"I love you as certain dark
things are to be loved,
"in secret 'tween
the shadow and the soul."
(WHISPERING)
We'll finish it later.
(INAUDIBLE)
MITCH: What the hell is this?
Hunter.
Hunter, please answer me!
Stop laughing!
Truman, I see you!
¶ If I give my love to you ¶
Who the hell are you?
You aren't...
¶ You sure
would give it back ¶
MITCH: Oh! Oh, damn it!
I hurt my ankle!
Somebody get somebody please!
¶ Let it rain, let it rain ¶
Someone... Hello? My ankle!
¶ Let your love
rain down on me ¶
You could have saved yourself
a lot of trouble
and just asked me out.
Who said anything
about asking you out?
(LAUGHS)
I heard something about you.
That I was in
a mental hospital?
Is it true?
Tried to kill myself.
The mental ward
was the best thing
that ever happened to me.
What did
the doctors do to help you?
The doctors didn't help me.
The patients helped me.
They helped me
realize that by helping them
I could forget
about my own problems.
And I did.
I really helped some of them.
It was
an incredible feeling, Carin.
There was one
patient named Rudy.
I helped him be able to pee.
But for the first
time in my life,
I forgot about
my own problems.
It was an incredible high.
What?
It's just that somebody,
you know,
could do for me
what you did for me tonight
after the way
I've treated you.
No one's ever done anything
like that for me before.
Thank you.
Good night.
(CHUCKLES)
No, this is not a good night.
This is a great night!
You know?
Hi, I'm John the Baptist.
Any calls?
I've been trying to reach you.
(SOBBING) I love you.
Let's go outside. Okay?
Hey, Bill.
Turquoise is
a nice color on you.
You don't have
to say anything.
I know I look good.
My boys.
My boys are beautiful, hmm?
Did you see my boys?
Yeah.
She's not bad either.
You think after you're gone,
maybe I could...
(CHUCKLING)
Oh, you're
killing me here, Patch.
Sing me that stupid song.
¶ Blue skies smilin' at me
¶ Nothin' but blue skies
¶ Do I see
¶ Bluebirds singin' a song
¶ Nothin' but bluebirds
¶ All day long
¶ Blue days
¶ All of them gone
¶ Nothin' but blue skies
¶ From now on ¶
See you, Bill.
WOMAN:  Por favor.
Dejeme ver a mi nina!
NURSE: I'm sorry, ma'am.
WOMAN: Somebody speak...
Alguien, ayudeme!
Dejeme ver a mi nina!
NURSE:
I need the forms filled out.
My baby! My baby!
Ma'am,
if you fill out the forms,
you can see her in a moment.
Excuse me.
Alguien...
What's going on here?
Oh, drunk driver.
She lost her husband and son.
Her daughter's in Trauma One,
but it doesn't look good.
NURSE:
I need the forms filled out.
WOMAN: Please!
Quiero ver a mi nina!
NURSE: You can see
her in one moment.
Quiero ver a mi nina!
My baby! Please!
HUNTER: Maybe you
could explain it to me
so I might understand it.
It's hospital procedure.
It isn't right that
a woman has to spend
the last moments
of her dying child
filling out forms.
Last year I had to
have my appendix out.
I forgot my insurance card,
so they sent me home.
My appendix could have burst.
They didn't care.
You know, my antibiotics
cost 100 bucks a month.
I paid $250 just to find out
I had a sprained ankle.
I mean,
do they really need to do
all those tests?
You know what they need to do.
The government needs
to pay for health insurance.
Health insurance companies
are why prices got so
high in the first place.
WOMAN: What do we do?
MAN 1:
What the hell is the answer?
MAN 2: Don't hurt your ankle.
MAN 1: Yeah, right.
Mmm-hmm.
Patch?
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
(CHUCKLING)
(HUMMING)
That's it.
What?
I gotta tell Carin.
Oh.
Can I borrow this stuff?
WAITRESS: Sure.
HUNTER: What do you see?
Patch, it's late.
What do you see?
Parsley.
No, no, no.
And a horn.
Look beyond the objects.
Look through them.
Over here. Look.
Kind of let them blur.
Tell me
the first thing you see.
Okay.
Something with a nose.
Now imagine that's
a building with a nose.
A free hospital.
No, no.
Can I go back to bed now?
Because I'm
bursting with ideas,
and I need you to help me.
It'll be the first fun
hospital in the world.
It'll be a totally
free-form building.
It'll have, like, slides
and secret
passageways and game rooms.
Slow down.
I can't write that fast.
I can't slow down.
We'll use humor to
heal pain and suffering.
Doctors and patients will work
side-by-side as peers.
There'll be no titles,
no bosses.
People will come
from all over the world
to fulfill their dream
of helping other people.
They'll be a community
where joy is a way of life,
where learning is
the highest aim,
where love is
the ultimate goal.
Yeah, not verbatim,
You have all that?
but the overall
insanity's intact.
That's why you
have to help me.
Patch, no.
No.
Yes.
I know it's not gonna
be easy, but you said
anything worth
doing is difficult.
Look...
I'm not like you, Patch.
I want the white coat.
I want people
to call me "doctor"
more than anything.
I want the recognition.
You'll get it every day
in the eyes of
patients you're helping.
There is more to life
than what Dean
Walcott puts out there.
That is all about
power and control,
all right?
I know you're scared.
You're right. I am scared.
I'm scared to death.
You know, you sit here
and you talk about
life without limits,
you know,
and breaking the rules.
It all sounds very,
very romantic.
You wanna know
what the truth is
about all that crap,
Patch, hmm?
People get hurt.
And who did it to you?
I have to go.
No, don't. Please. No, no.
Listen to me. Come on.
Whatever it is... Come on.
Come on. You can tell me.
I can help you. I swear I can.
Good night.
I'll see you tomorrow.
Please, let me help you.
I'm really starting to love
the back of your head.
(SIGHS)
(ALL CHATTERING)
Get this cleaned out,
and get him down
to the suture room.
You're gonna be fine, Larry.
Larry's been in
and out of the E.R.
for a couple of years.
Not because he's
accident-prone.
No. His father
died two years ago.
Since then he's been subject
to fits of depression
and self-mutilation.
Head trauma, D-5.
Thank you for doing this.
You can thank me by
not getting me fired.
Just observe
rounds and stay within
hospital protocol.
Look, Patch.
You're a good thing
for this hospital.
You remind me of myself
when I first
started out on fire,
wanting to save the world.
But you lose a little
of that after a while.
The system is what it is.
It's not perfect,
but it's all we have.
Why does it have
to be all we have?
Why can't it be changed?
You figure out how, Patch,
and I'll be there for you.
Bed six needs blood work.
Mrs.
O'Bannon needs blood work.
Hello, Ed.
You feeling a little dizzy?
Yeah.
Hello, Mrs. O'Bannon.
May I call you Catherine?
We're gonna draw
a little blood.
Can you tell how many fingers
I'm holding up?
How many do you see?
How many fingers?
How many fingers
do you see, Ed?
(SINGING ON
RADIO) ¶ What I feel
¶ I can't say ¶
How much longer do I have
to keep my eyes closed?
Just till I open mine.
Keep 'em closed.
You're almost there.
¶ It's only love
¶ That you need
¶ And I'll try my best... ¶
Not like that. This way.
Come on. Come on.
There you go. All right.
Here, here. Hold on to me.
It's just a little further.
Just a little further.
There you go.
All right, all right.
There you are.
That's all right.
I'm afraid.
You're almost there.
Don't be afraid.
It's gonna be worth it.
All right.
Ready? Watch your step.
There you go. And...
Open your eyes.
It's beautiful.
It's 105 acres of
all-natural forest.
Seven streams, two waterfalls.
This is it, the future site
of the Gesundheit Institute.
This is yours?
Not yet, but it will be soon.
Come on.
There's something else.
What is it?
Our new home.
Carin, what do you think?
How did you find this?
Him.
Arthur Mendelson.
All this is his,
the land, the cottage.
He's letting us borrow it
till we can purchase it.
Mr. Mendelson, I realize
that under the terms
of your commitment,
you retained
control of your assets.
Nevertheless...
You learn anything
about proctology yet, Patch?
Good.
A little bit.
Take care of this
asshole for me, will ya?
Nice meeting you.
MAN: Yeah. Mr. Mendelson...
There's room for you.
Hey, Patch.
Hi, Bile.
An old friend.
Who's Bile?
Without medical insurance.
Oh.
He's just staying
here a couple of days.
What do you say?
Think potential.
¶ Only you know and I know
¶ All the lovin'
we've got to show ¶
Hey.
¶ So don't
refuse to believe it
¶ By readin' too many meanings
¶ 'Cause you know
¶ That I mean what
I say so don't go ¶
You're certainly
a lovely couple.
We can't go on
meeting like this.
¶ You know you can't go on
gettin' your own way ¶
This card is expired.
(SPEAKING IN CHINESE)
Have you a valid card?
Medicine. Chinese medicine.
¶ Welcome
¶ It'll be pleasin'
¶ 'Cause you know
I'm not deceivin'
¶ But it's hard to believe it
¶ Oh, yeah, when
you've been so mistreated
¶ 'Cause you know
that I mean what I say
¶ So don't go
¶ And never take
it the wrong way
¶ You know you can't go on
gettin' your own way
¶ 'Cause if you do ¶
MAN: Yeah, yeah.
That's painful there.
Hang on a second.
I only have one arm.
(RINGING)
Gesundheit.
Let's go!
BILE: Yeah. Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
Hi. How can we help you?
I don't know. I heard
about this place, and I...
I thought maybe I
would get some...
You know,
maybe I'd talk to somebody,
because my thoughts...
This is crazy.
Word's getting out,
we're handling the overflow
from three
different clinics now.
I start my pediatric
clerkship next week.
I don't know how
I'm gonna keep up.
(IN HIGH-PITCHED VOICE)
Call for a doctor in here?
Let's try this right now.
There.
Look at that there.
Hey,
thank you, Judy and Cissy,
for that lovely medicine.
(HUNTER EXCLAIMING)
How you feeling, Frank?
You feel better?
Yeah, feel better.
Well, keep on your medication.
You can never go
wrong if you're a Marxist.
Hey, Patch?
Yes?
This is...
I didn't get your name.
Larry.
Hi, Larry. How are you?
Nice to meet you.
Good.
What are you
passionate about, Larry?
What excites you?
What turns you on?
I like to read.
I love to read.
What do you like to read?
Who's your favorite author?
Kazantzakis.
Oh. "World is trouble.
Man needs a little madness,
or else..."
"Or else he dare not
cut the rope and be free."
That's great, Larry.
That's wonderful.
We're gonna get
along just fine. Truman.
Yeah, Patch. What?
Can you come over here
and show Larry around?
Nice having you here, Larry.
Welcome.
Thanks. Okay.
I've seen Larry in the E.R.
before.
He's weird.
I'm weird.
If we don't show him
compassion, who will?
MAN: What's that name again?
Right.
¶ We were born before the wind
¶ Also younger than the sun ¶
Hi.
(BOTH SIGH)
(CHUCKLING)
Yeah.
Everyone asleep?
But it ain't me.
You okay?
Yeah.
God, Patch, it's amazing.
What?
Just what you've done
with this place, you know.
Well...
You, too.
These people
that we're helping,
they would have
had nowhere to go.
You're a good man.
What are we?
Is it me?
I mean, are we just...
Are we good friends
that occasionally kiss?
Patch,
my entire life, men have been
attracted to me.
My entire life.
When I was a little girl,
I would look out
my bedroom window
at the caterpillars.
I envied them so much.
No matter what
they were before,
no matter what
happened to them,
they could just
hide away, you know,
and turn into these
beautiful creatures
that could fly away,
completely untouched.
I hated men so much.
I wanted nothing
to do with them.
(SNIFFING)
Then I met you.
The way that you
help people, Patch.
The changes I see in everybody
that's around you...
I love you.
I've loved you for so long.
(CHUCKLES)
You scared me.
I was watching you sleep.
I have a real knack.
Impressive, hmm?
"I love you
without knowing how
"or when or from where.
Patch.
"I love you straight..."
Sorry.
It's okay.
We have a situation out here
that needs attention.
I've been trying
to warn you guys about this,
and now we have
absolutely zero supplies.
There's an older
gentlemen over there.
He has a sprained shoulder.
I don't have any slings.
I had to wrap his
arm in his own belt.
We have no iodine.
We don't even have
any gauze, for God's sake.
There's an entire supply room
at the hospital.
That couldn't
possibly be because
those supplies
belong to the hospital.
No. That's too obvious.
Come on. I need your feet,
and I want your body.
Come on.
Bye.
Behave.
TRUMAN:
Would you hurry, please?
This stuff is crushing me.
Quiet. You're a corpse.
(TRUMAN EXCLAIMS)
(SHUSHING)
TRUMAN: Damn it!
Watch it!
Quiet. Shut up!
(TAPE REWINDING)
(BEEPING)
Yeah, this is Larry.
I was wondering
if somebody could come over.
I'm not doin' too well.
I was, I was...
It would help if I
could talk to somebody.
Okay.
(DIAL TONE)
(PIANO PLAYING)
Hello?
Larry?
Are you okay?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm fine. I'm fine.
I didn't know you could play.
You sound wonderful.
Thank you.
And this house, it's amazing.
Is it yours?
It's my father's.
He left it to me.
Here. Let me take your jacket.
Sure.
You okay?
Yeah. I'm fine. I'm fine.
Come in. Come in.
Thanks.
I really can't stay very long.
I just wanted to see
how you were doing.
Yeah, you're right.
No, we don't wanna be late.
(DOOR OPENING)
(SNORING)
Patch.
You just got a telephone call.
Dean Anderson wants to see you
in his office immediately.
Oh, no. Walcott found out
about our borrowed supplies.
We're dead.
Ye of little faith.
(SIGHS)
Dean Anderson, I know
what this is all about,
and I assure you, sir...
Sit down.
(CLEARING THROAT)
Something happened last night.
Carin Fisher was murdered.
She was with Lawrence Silver.
There was a shotgun involved,
and then he turned
the gun on himself.
Jesus Christ,
Patch, I'm sorry.
I know she was a friend.
If there's
anything I can do...
Hell of a deal.
PRIEST: "Into Your hands,
O Merciful Savior,
"we commend
Your servant Carin.
"Receive her into
the arms of Your mercy,
"into the blessed rest
of everlasting peace,
"and into the glorious company
of the saints on high."
Amen.
(SOBBING)
Told you I'd finish
it some other time.
Guess now's okay.
"I love you without
knowing how or when
"or from where.
"I love you straightforwardly,
without complexities or pride.
"I love you because I know
no other way than this.
(SNIFFING)
"So close
"that your hand on
my chest is my hand.
"So close that when
you close your eyes,
"I fall asleep."
(SOBBING)
I'm sorry, honey! I'm sorry!
We can't disband.
You know that, right?
What about our patients?
What do we tell them?
They'll manage.
They managed before.
Good.
I refuse to quit.
God, you're being
so self-indulgent.
This has been your vision,
but we all built this place
and it belongs to all of us.
Carin will always
remain within these walls.
If you walk away from that,
if you let that all die...
I've dedicated every
spare moment I have
to assisting you
in what I believe
is a pure and a good purpose.
Quitting is not going
to help you get through this.
You've always told us...
Stop it!
I've always told you what?
People are good. Trust people?
(SCOFFS)
You know, Truman,
in all of God's creations,
only human beings
kill their own species.
There's a fun fact
for your final exam.
Carin's death cannot make
helping people wrong.
She saw it coming.
She knew there was something
dangerous about Larry.
I didn't see it.
Patch,
why are you being like this?
Because I killed her, Truman.
I taught her
the medicine that killed her.
She'd still be here
if I hadn't met her.
(SQUEAKING)
You can't leave.
If what you say is true,
looks like I'm defying
the laws of possibility.
What are you doing?
Oh, I can't leave
until you beat me, is that it?
Okay. I surrender.
You're number one.
You're the top
student in the class.
You're smarter than me.
Is that what you want to hear?
Now can I leave?
You know Mrs. Kennedy in 212?
She doesn't eat.
I visited her room every day
for the last three weeks.
I can't get her to eat.
Now, I know everything
there is to know
about medicine.
I've studied relentlessly.
I guarantee you I can outdo,
outdiagnose any attending
and surgeon in this hospital.
(SIGHS)
But I can't make her eat.
You have a gift.
You have a way with people.
You know, they like you.
And if you leave,
I can't learn this way.
So what now, huh?
What do You want from me?
Yeah, I could do it.
We both know You
wouldn't stop me.
So answer me, please.
Tell me what You're doing.
Okay, let's look at the logic.
You create man.
Man suffers
enormous amounts of pain.
Man dies.
(SCOFFS)
Maybe You should
have had just a few more
brainstorming
sessions prior to Creation.
You rested on the seventh day.
Maybe You should have spent
that day on compassion.
You know what?
You're not worth it.
(LAUGHING)
Do you still want
help with Mrs. Kennedy?
Hey, Aggie.
We have a special
surprise for you.
(PEOPLE CHATTERING)
ALL: Surprise!
Benvenuto, Aggie!
Aggie, Aggie!
Grab a hold, Aggie!
Oh!
TRUMAN: There you go.
Come on in, Aggie.
Oh.
Yes.
(SHOUTING)
HUNTER: Pasta angels, Aggie!
Pasta angels!
Patch?
Hey. I'm supposed
to give you this.
You turn around and
walk right out of here.
Why?
Everything will be delineated
in your letter of dismissal.
Why?
You don't fit in.
There are standards and codes.
You make
the patients and everyone
else around you uncomfortable.
I make you uncomfortable.
Well, you can make this into
a personal
issue if you'd like.
But the reality is you are not
cut out to be a physician.
And it is my responsibility...
Responsibility?
You have one responsibility
to be a dick-head.
How hard can that be?
All you have to do
is make sure your head
is a dick and it's
attached to your neck.
You leave immediately.
I wanna see my records.
They're confidential.
Only the staff...
Please,
you have to have permission.
You can't just go in there
and take your own file!
Your marks are
basically perfect.
You've gotta be near
the top of the class.
Look at this.
"Excessive happiness."
Mmm-hmm.
Actually says
you're excessively happy?
And what does that mean?
Isn't that good?
I gotta fight this.
What can we do?
Dean Walcott seems
thoroughly committed
to your not ever
becoming a doctor.
Even Dean
Anderson signed this.
Nah, I'm screwed.
I like this.
You need my help.
I prefer to
think I'm using you.
You have one shot.
You'd have to
appeal to the state
medical board.
How does that work?
You claim that a prejudice
and injustice has occurred.
They'll be
worried about a suit.
They'll have to investigate.
Then what?
They'll review your grades,
which is good,
you're almost
top of the class,
but mostly your behavior.
Do you have any
idea what Walcott
has on you?
How'd you get these?
Don't ask.
(SIGHS)
They can't prevent
me from graduating
because of
a personality clash, can they?
Hunter,
this is a medical institution
you're dealing with.
They draw their own law.
You'll have to get their focus
on your high
marks and off of this.
I'm screwed, aren't I?
You're almost a doctor.
They're a panel of doctors.
Just think of
them as your peers
and return these.
Yeah.
And get a suit.
MAN: Hunter Adams.
You've been
accused of practicing
medicine without a license.
That's a very
grave charge, son.
Are you aware that
it's unlawful to practice
medicine without
a medical license?
Yes, sir, I am.
Are you aware that
running a medical clinic
without the proper licensing
can place both
you and the public
in a great deal of danger?
Is a home a clinic, sir?
If you are admitting patients
and treating them,
physical
location is irrelevant.
Sir, will you
define treatment for me?
Yes. Treatment would
be defined as the care
of a patient
seeking medical attention.
Have you been
treating patients,
Mr. Adams?
I live with several people.
They come and go
as they please.
I offer them
whatever help I can.
Mr. Adams,
have you or have
you not been treating
patients at your ranch?
Everyone who
comes to the ranch
is a patient, yes.
(ALL MURMURING)
And every person who comes
to the ranch is also a doctor.
I'm sorry?
Every person who comes
to the ranch is in need
of some form of
physical or mental help.
They're patients.
But also every person
who comes to the ranch
is in charge of taking
care of someone else.
Whether it's cooking for them,
cleaning them
or even as simple
a task as listening.
That makes them doctors.
I use that term broadly,
but is not a doctor
someone who
helps someone else?
When did the term
"doctor" get treated
with such reverence, as,
"Right this way,
Doctor Smith,"
or, "Excuse me, Dr. Scholl,
what wonderful footpads,"
or, "Pardon me, Dr. Patterson,
but your
flatulence has no odor"?
(ALL MURMURING)
At what point in history
did a doctor become more
than a trusted
and learned friend
who visited and
treated the ill?
Now, you ask me if I've
been practicing medicine.
Well, if this means opening
your door to those in need,
those in pain,
caring for them,
listening to them,
applying a cold cloth
until a fever breaks.
If this is
practicing medicine,
if this is treating a patient,
then I am guilty
as charged, sir.
Did you consider
the ramifications
of your actions?
What if one of your
patients had died?
What's wrong with death, sir?
What are we so
mortally afraid of?
Why can't we treat death with
a certain amount of
humanity and dignity
and decency and, God forbid,
maybe even humor?
Death is not the enemy,
gentlemen.
If we're gonna fight
a disease, let's fight
one of the most
terrible diseases of all,
indifference.
Now, I've sat in your schools
and heard people
lecture on transference
and professional distance.
Transference is inevitable,
sir.
Every human being
has an impact on another.
Why don't we want that in
a patient-doctor relationship?
That's why I've
listened to your teachings,
and I believe they're wrong.
A doctor's mission should be
not just to prevent death
but also to improve
the quality of life.
That's why you
treat a disease,
you win, you lose.
You treat a person,
I guarantee you,
you win,
no matter what the outcome.
Now here today, this room
is full of medical students.
Don't let them
anesthetize you.
Don't let them numb you out
to the miracle of life.
Always live in
awe of the glorious
mechanism of the human body.
Let that be
the focus of your studies
and not a quest for grades
which'll give you no idea
what kind of
doctor you will become.
MAN: Please turn
and address the board.
Don't wait till
you're on the ward
to get your humanity back.
Start your
interviewing skills.
Start talking to strangers.
Talk to your friends,
talk to wrong numbers,
everyone.
Mr. Adams!
And cultivate friendships
with those amazing
people in the back
of the room,
nurses that could teach you.
They've been with
people every day.
They wade
through blood and shit.
They have
a wealth of knowledge,
and so do
the professors you respect.
The ones who are not dead
from the heart up.
Share their compassion.
Let that be contagious.
Mr. Adams, I demand that you
turn and address the board.
Sir, I want to be
a doctor with all my heart.
I wanted to become a doctor
so I could serve others,
and because of that
I've lost everything,
but I've also
gained everything.
I've shared
the lives of patients
and staff members
at the hospital.
I've laughed with them.
I've cried with them.
This is what I want
to do with my life.
And as God is my witness,
no matter what your
decision today, sir,
I will still become
the best damn doctor
the world has ever seen.
Now you have the ability
to prevent me from graduating.
You can keep me from getting
the title and the white coat.
But you can't control
my spirit, gentlemen.
You can't keep
me from learning.
me from studying.
So you have a choice,
you could have me
as a professional colleague,
passionate,
or you can have me as an
outspoken outsider,
still adamant.
Either way, I'll probably
still be viewed as a thorn.
But I promise you one thing.
I am a thorn that
will not go away.
Is that all?
I hope not, sir.
We will adjourn briefly.
(CHUCKLES)
Thank you.
Hunter Adams.
We find your methods
less than appealing.
Your appearance and your
demeanor do not reflect
what we believe is necessary
to earn a patient's
trust and respect.
You openly
accuse us of adhering
to time-honored practices that
for years have
been the backbone
of the entire
medical institution.
However,
we find no fault
in your attempts
to improve the quality
of life around you.
We find no
fault in your desire
to expand upon
existing medical practices
and theories.
We applaud your
love of the patient.
Your grades are among
the highest in your class,
and, therefore, we find
no merit in the decision
to block your graduation
from medical school.
Now, along with your crass
and disdainful behavior,
you carry with you a flame,
which one could only hope
would spread
through the medical
profession like a brushfire.
And Dean Walcott,
in the future,
I think matters like this
could best be solved
if you yourself
would practice a little
"excessive happiness."
(ALL CHEERING)
Well, today you go
from being students in a class
to being members of a class,
a very select class.
You face the future with your
heads held high because
you are now doctors.
Dr. Michael Ames.
Dr. Doris Ackerman.
Dr. Hunter "Patch" Adams.
(ALL CHEERING)
Yeah, Patch!
Well, I'm happy to see you've
finally decided to conform.
More than you know, sir.
(ALL LAUGHING)
¶ It's been a long road
¶ Gettin' from there to here
¶ It's been a long time
¶ But my time is finally near
¶ And I can feel a change
in the wind right now
¶ Nothing's in my way
¶ And they're not gonna
hold me down no more
¶ No, they're not gonna
hold me back
¶ 'Cause I've got faith
of the heart
¶ I'm going where my heart
will take me
¶ I've got faith to believe
¶ I can do anything
¶ I've got strength
of the soul
¶ And no one's gonna bend
or break me
¶ I can reach any star
¶ I've got faith
I've got, I've got faith
¶ Faith of the heart
¶ It's been a long night
¶ Trying to find my way
¶ Been through the darkness
¶ Now I finally have my day
¶ And I will see my dream
come alive at last
¶ I will touch the sky
¶ And they're not gonna
hold me down no more
¶ No, they're not gonna
change my mind
¶ 'Cause I've got faith
of the heart
¶ I'm going where my heart
will take me
¶ I've got faith to believe
¶ I can do anything
¶ I've got strength
of the soul
¶ And no one's gonna bend
or break me
¶ I can reach any star
¶ I've got faith
I've got, I've got faith
¶ Faith of the heart
¶ I've known a wind so cold
¶ I've seen the darkest days
¶ But now the winds I feel
¶ Are only winds of change
¶ I've been through the fire
¶ And I've been
through the rain
¶ But I'll be fine
¶ Oh, yeah
'Cause I got faith
¶ Of the heart
¶ I'm going where my heart
will take me
¶ I've got faith to believe
¶ I can do anything
¶ I've got strength
of the soul
¶ And no one's gonna bend
or break me
¶ I can reach any star
¶ I got, I got, I got
I've got faith
¶ Faith of the
Faith of the heart
¶ I'm going where my heart
will take me
¶ I've got faith to believe
¶ And no one's gonna bend
or break me
¶ I can reach any star
¶ 'Cause I've got faith
I've got, I've got, I've got
¶ Faith of the heart
¶ It's been a long road ¶